---
author: dimz
published: true
tags: book-notes
title: The Fall by Albert Camus
---

I just finished reading 'The Fall' by Albert Camus. The story tells the confessions of a well-educated,well set and care-free man who seemingly had it all. After a series of strange and traumatic events he slowly realises how superficial his existence was. This leads him to gradually change his attitude as he becomes more and more judgmental about himself and others.

The novel is told from the point of view of the man in one big monologue over the course of six chapters. While reading to book you have the feeling the man is talking to you, and in that sense you associate with his story on a deeper level. This style of presenting the main (and only speaking) character renders the book more confronting as you cannot help to compare yourself to what the man is telling. 

Previous books I read from Albert Camus are the "The Plague" and "The Stranger" and as with those books I was fully immersed in his writing. I couldn't put the book down until I finished it. It's a captivating book, beatifully written that keeps you thinking for a while.

### Memorable quotes

> Men are never convinced of your reasons, of your sincerity, of the seriousness of your sufferings, except by your death. So long as you are alive, your case is doubtful; you have a right only to their skepticism.

> Of course, true love is exceptional - two or three times a century, more or less. The rest of the time there is vanity or boredom.

> We are all exceptional cases. We all want to appeal against something! Each of us insists on being innocent at all cost, even if he has to accuse the whole human race and heaven itself.